DATA PROCESS

Discover Data Analytics:
1- As a data analyst, you are on a journey. Think about all the data that is being generated each day and that is available in an organization, from transactional data in a traditional database, telemetry data from services that you use, to signals that you get from different areas like social media.
2- With data and information as the most strategic asset of a business, the underlying challenge that organizations have today is understanding and using their data to positively affect change within the business. Businesses continue to struggle to use their data in a meaningful and productive way, which impacts their ability to act.
3- In today's highly competitive and fast-paced business world, crafting reports that tell that story is what helps business leaders take action on the data. Business decision makers depend on an accurate story to drive better business decisions. The faster a business can make precise decisions, the more competitive they will be and the better advantage they will have. Without the story, it is difficult to understand what the data is trying to tell you.
4- However, having data alone is not enough. You need to be able to act on the data to effect change within the business. That action could involve reallocating resources within the business to accommodate a need, or it could be identifying a failing campaign and knowing when to change course. These situations are where telling a story with your data is important.
5- The underlying challenge that businesses face today is understanding and using their data in such a way that impacts their business and ultimately their bottom line. You need to be able to look at the data and facilitate trusted business decisions. Then, you need the ability to look at metrics and clearly understand the meaning behind those metrics.
6- Data analysis exists to help overcome these challenges and pain points, ultimately assisting businesses in finding insights and uncovering hidden value in troves of data through storytelling.

Overview of data analysis:
Data analysis is the process of identifying, cleaning, transforming, and modeling data to discover meaningful and useful information. The data is then crafted into a story through reports for analysis to support the critical decision-making process.
To analyze data, core components of analytics are divided into the following categories:
Descriptive
Diagnostic
Predictive
Prescriptive
Cognitive

Roles in Data
The following sections highlight these different roles in data and the specific responsibility in the overall spectrum of data discovery and understanding:
Business analyst
While some similarities exist between a data analyst and business analyst, the key differentiator between the two roles is what they do with data. A business analyst is closer to the business and is a specialist in interpreting the data that comes from the visualization. Often, the roles of data analyst and business analyst could be the responsibility of a single person.
Data analyst
A data analyst enables businesses to maximize the value of their data assets through visualization and reporting tools such as Microsoft Power BI. Data analysts are responsible for profiling, cleaning, and transforming data. Their responsibilities also include designing and building scalable and effective semantic models, and enabling and implementing the advanced analytics capabilities into reports for analysis.
Data engineer
Data engineers provision and set up data platform technologies that are on-premises and in the cloud. They manage and secure the flow of structured and unstructured data from multiple sources. 
Primary responsibilities of data engineers include the use of on-premises and cloud data services and tools to ingest, egress, and transform data from multiple sources. Data engineers collaborate with business stakeholders to identify and meet data requirements. They design and implement solutions.
Data scientist
Data scientists perform advanced analytics to extract value from data. Their work can vary from descriptive analytics to predictive analytics. Descriptive analytics evaluate data through a process known as exploratory data analysis (EDA). Predictive analytics are used in machine learning to apply modeling techniques that can detect anomalies or patterns.
Database administrator
A database administrator implements and manages the operational aspects of cloud-native and hybrid data platform solutions that are built on Microsoft Azure data services and Microsoft SQL Server. A database administrator is responsible for the overall availability and consistent performance and optimizations of the database solutions. They work with stakeholders to identify and implement the policies, tools, and processes for data backup and recovery plans.

Tasks of a data analyst
A data analyst is one of several critical roles in an organization, who help uncover and make sense of information to keep the company balanced and operating efficiently
Data analysts are essential in helping organizations gain valuable insights into the expanse of data that they have, and they work closely with others in the organization to help reveal valuable information.
1 - Prepare
Data preparation is the process of taking raw data and turning it into information that is trusted and understandable. It involves, among other things, ensuring the integrity of the data, correcting wrong or inaccurate data, identifying missing data, converting data from one structure to another or from one type to another, or even a task as simple as making data more readable.
2 - Model
Data modeling is the process of determining how your tables are related to each other. This process is done by defining and creating relationships between the tables. From that point, you can enhance the model by defining metrics and adding custom calculations to enrich your data.
An effective semantic model makes reports more accurate, allows the data to be explored faster and efficiently, decreases time for the report writing process, and simplifies future report maintenance.

